---
title: This is my fourteent post.😉
description: This is a post on My Blog about learning to code.
date: 2022-09-08
tags:
  - number 2
layout: layouts/post.njk
---


# progressing with mathematics	
I’m happy because I am having fun learning maths. I do the Khan Academy curriculum, I am learning high school math, the basics, and college math, calculus, linear algebra and statistics etc. My aim is to complete the math part of Khan Academy. I also started watching an open coursware course by MIT on mathematics for computer science, which is an undergraduate course and we are learning about proofs and making proofs. I also started watching a graduate course on linear algebra and computation. I remember that patterns are important in math. Math is the science of patterns, and there are patterns in matrices. We looked at properties of a matrix and it was invertible, sparse and fixed from both sides. We also looked at what it means for a matrix to be fixed from one side and free from the other, or free from both sides. I encountered many new and interesting words, it feels a bit like learning a new language. So, among the words were dependent and independent variable, tangent line, graphing polynomials, ln(t+1), derivative dW/dt, chain rule, metric, Modus Ponens, the Fundamental Rule of Logic, antecedent, proposition, contrapositive, proving a proposition, inference rules, antecedent, QED, DFT, Fourier, ODE, PDE, sparse, periodic, tridiagonal, second order differential equations, properties of matrices, constant diagonal, linear time-invariant filter, MATLAB, Python, R, invertible matrix, determinate, row reduce, pivot, PATTERNS, elimination, solving systems, in the null space, arbitrary constant in calculus, boundary condition, positive definite, semi definite.

Then in the evening I sat in a graduate lecture on the connection of combinatorics, number theory and graph theory. It actually felt like sitting there in a university in an evening class. Some of the new concepts I found were hypergraph regularity, Szemeredi’s regularity, polymath project, combinatorial proof, Ergodic methods, density Hales-Jewett, theoretical computer science, higher order Fourier analysis, dichotomy of structure and pseudorandomness, graph theory, subset, positive upper density, arbitrary constellations, positive density, Green-Tao thm, conjectures, arbitrariily long, number theory, Roth’s theorem, simple, TAO, Schur’s, Ramsey’s, Mantel’s thm, harmonic series, additive combinatorics, lemma, prediction.

My idea is to approach learning math as if building a « big picture » from puzzles and to learn sporadically from everywhere, every level of math. I enjoyed a course on eDx by Stanford University on creative math learning. Number flexibility, different approaches to the same problem, there is a revolution in the math class. Timed tests are damaging. 

I am happy because I daydreamed about going to college and I was upset for it being so complicated and not accessible to go to college to study math. I would like if one could just go to any university and study whatever one wants to study at whatever level. And so this is available and accessible for me right here through the internet.

# it is ok to have disconnected ideas
To try to solve problems that I think I cannot. That are more difficult. I am doing Khan Academy curriculum sporadically, so I try to do the highest level exercises as well, even though I don’t know the preceding material. It is fun so far. I watched a course on eDx Math and Mindset: How to learn math. Great course and found many cool ideas to try. Thinking visually, for example. Practicing visual note taking and visual thinking in math could be a great design project, documenting the learning process as I go along. PLAY all day. Visual math, creative math. P/PC balance, renewal activities, keeping it going all day, flow, riding the wave, stretching. Making math visual, great starting point for a light design project idea visual notetaking, ideation, ideas generation, thinking, bath, bed, bus Keep going! 😉 Now I have done the 90 min learning bout early this morning, I can do many many many light exercises, filling in the basics of maths always always move on to something new, or try to think of a different perspective, different point of view, discuss, read forum etc. Yoga nidra. Look for the big idea in maths. Simple recall.